
--List all orders with customer names and product names.

Show each order with product price included.

Find all customers who have placed at least one order.

Show each product that has been ordered and by whom.

Display all customers along with order dates and products they bought.


List all customers and their orders (if any).

Show customers who have not placed any orders.

List all products and their order info (if ordered).

Find products that have never been ordered.

Get all orders and include customer info even if customer doesn't exist in Customers table.


Show all orders with product details, even if the product doesn't exist in Products.

Get all customers who placed orders, including products even if they are invalid.

List all products and any order associated with them.

Show which orders were made with missing customer info.


List all customers and their orders, including customers and orders that don’t match.

Show all orders and products whether matched or not.

Display all unmatched customers and orders.

Show unmatched products and their attempted orders.


Show all possible combinations of customers and products.

Display all product-customer combinations where country is 'USA'.

Show cross join where price is above $500.

Count total number of combinations between customers and products.

🔹 SELF JOIN ideas (if extended schema)
(Optional) Add manager field to Customers and find relationships.


Find customers who have never ordered anything.

List products never ordered.

Show orders with invalid customers.

Find orders with invalid product references.


List customers who ordered ‘Laptop’.

Show total quantity ordered for each product.

Get customer names and total amount spent.

Show each product with number of times ordered.

Find customers with multiple orders.

Show latest order for each customer.

List all products with total revenue generated.

Display all customers and their first order (if any).

Find products ordered by customers from the UK.

Show the most expensive product each customer has ordered.

Show customers who ordered both ‘Phone’ and ‘Tablet’.

Find which customer has spent the most.

List customers who have placed more than 1 order.

Count number of orders per country.

Get product details for orders made in March 2023.

Show all customers who ordered something after Feb 2023.

List orders with quantities more than 1.

Get total orders placed per customer with total quantity.

Show customers and their average order value.

Show all products with unit price above 700 and their orders.

Retrieve all customers whose total spend exceeds $1500.

List all orders where the quantity is not between 1 and 2.

Show all customers who have either ordered nothing or ordered invalid products.

