Get the full name of each employee in uppercase.

Get the length of each employee’s full name.

Get only the domain part from each employee's email.

Replace all dots in email addresses with underscores.

Trim any leading or trailing spaces from first names.

Find employees whose last name starts with 'S'.

Find employees whose email contains 'example'.

Return the first three letters of each first name.

Find the position of '@' in each email. (hint: CHARINDEX)

Concatenate first name and last name with a space in between.

Find employees whose last name ends with 'a'.

Get only the first name in lowercase.

Get the number of characters in email addresses.

Find employees with no email assigned.

Replace the country code in phone numbers with just the number.

Extract first name initials.

Use PATINDEX to find the position of '@' in emails.(hint: PATINDEX('%@%', Email))

Use REPLACE to remove all hyphens from phone numbers.

Get last name reversed using REVERSE.

Use LEFT and RIGHT to get first and last three characters of last names.

Round off salaries to nearest 100.

Get absolute value of salary differences from 70000.

ABS()

Get the square root of salaries
SQRT()

Get ceiling value of all salary entries.
CEILING()

Get floor value of all salary entries.
FLOOR(Salary)

Use POWER to square the salaries
POWER(Salary, 2)

-- 28. Use PI() to return the constant
SELECT PI()

Use RAND() to generate a random number per row
hint :  SELECT RAND(CHECKSUM(NEWID())) AS RandomValue FROM Employees;



Multiply salary by 1.10 (10% hike).

Divide salary by 30 to get per day salary.

Use POWER to calculate square of each salary.

Get modulus of EmployeeID by 2.

Find average salary of all employees.

Find min, max, sum of salaries.

Find employees with salary greater than average salary.

Get rounded salary to 2 decimal places.

Get year, month, day from DateOfJoining.

Get only the name of the day (Monday, etc.).

Find employees who joined in the last 3 years.

Get number of days since each employee joined.

Find who joined on a weekend.

Add 100 days to the joining date.

Subtract 100 days from the joining date.

Use EOMONTH to get end of month for each joining date.

Truncate date to the start of the year using DATETRUNC.

Use DATEDIFF to find experience in years.

Use DATEPART(quarter) to find quarter of joining.

Get current date and time using GETDATE().

Format date as dd-mm-yyyy.

Use CONVERT to format DateOfJoining as mm/dd/yyyy.

Use FORMAT(DateOfJoining, 'MMM yyyy').

Get time difference in minutes between GETDATE() and DateOfJoining.

Find employees who joined on same month as today.

Show date in yyyy-MM-dd format.

Extract only month name from DateOfJoining.

Show first day of the joining month.

Show last day of joining year.

Find employees who joined in current year.

Display joining date as dd MMMM, yyyy.

Show month and year together (like 'March 2019').

Show employees whose anniversary is today (match only day and month).

Add 6 months to the joining date.

Subtract 3 years from DateOfJoining.

Use DATENAME to display weekday name of joining.

Get ISO week number of joining date.

Show full formatted string like: "Joined on 15th March, 2019 (Friday)"

Convert salary to VARCHAR and append " INR".

Convert DateOfJoining to string.

Convert string "100.25" to decimal using CAST.

Use CONVERT to get date in dd/mm/yyyy format.

Convert NULL emails to "No Email Provided".

Convert phone number to INT (what happens?).

Cast EmployeeID to VARCHAR and concatenate with name.

Convert date to datetime and add time '09:00:00'.

Cast salary to INT and compare with original.

Show difference between CAST and CONVERT.

Count how many employees have NULL salary.

Replace NULL phone numbers with 'N/A'.

Use ISNULL(Salary, 0) to calculate total salaries.

Use COALESCE(Email, 'No Email').

Compare ISNULL vs COALESCE for multiple NULLs.

Find employees with either NULL phone or NULL email.

Use NULLIF(Salary, 0) and explain output.

Use ISNULL to calculate average salary including NULLs.

Show employees where Salary is NOT NULL.

Return 'Missing' for NULL email when concatenating names.

List employees with formatted string: "Rahul Sharma from Engineering earns 75K".

Show all employees and their experience in complete years and months.

Create a query that lists department-wise average salary.

List employees who have been in the company more than average experience.

Find out how many employees don’t have phone/email/salary.

Show only employees who joined before 2020 and have NULL email.

Format salary with commas (e.g., 75,000.50).

Find employees with phone numbers containing '9876'.

Display department name along with each employee.

Show how many employees joined each quarter.

Show first and last character of each last name.

Display difference between LEN and DATALENGTH for names.

Format joining date with month name and day (e.g., 15 March 2019).

List employees whose names contain vowels only.

Find employees who joined in the same month as today.

Count number of characters in full name excluding spaces.

